---
title: Open Indie Licence v0.4
---

## A. Definitions

1. **Licenceor**, **We**, **Our**
2. **You**, **Your**
3. **Assets** refers collectively to: 
    1. **Music** refers to any sountrack files in any format and thier musical arrangements. **Musical Arrangements** refers specifically to thier arrangements. 
    2. **Voice** refers to any audio files containing voice clips, often for voice acting. If it is part of a musical track, it is Music not Voice. 
    3. **Sound** (or **Sounds**) refers to any audio files that do not qualify as Music or Voice
    4. **Art** refers to any texture or sprite files including things such as UV Maps. 
    5. **Models** refers to any 3D model files in any format. 
    6. **Rigs** refers to any 2D or 3D bone or rig structures. 
    7. **Translations**, **Disalogue** and **Text** refers to any text files that may be found  within the games files. [?!]
    8. **Configuration Files** ->
    9. **Hardware** 
    10. **Exported Code** refers to exported Assembely, Bytecode, or direct CPU intruction files.
4. **Source Assets** refers to all assets in a non exported form, such as raw image editor files, Source Code, etc. 
    1. **Source Code** refers to the language in which the contents were written in.
    2. **Intermediary Code** refers to a any languages that the Source Code compile process results in, that is not considered Exported Code.
    3. **Raw Resources**, **Editor Files**, and **Asset Source** refers to any editor files such as (but not limited to) Blender Source files (.blend), Photoshop files (.psd), Krita files (.kra), OpenRasre files (.xcf), and any simillar types of files. 
5. **Branding** refers to any branding assets
6. **Legal Copy** refers to a copy of the game, asset, or software purchased from an official distrubition platform for the price in your current country of residence in the official currency of your current country of residence. 
7. **Product** (game, music, etc)
8. **Intellectual Property**
9. **Game** 
9. **Non-Commercial** means any product where you do not need to pay to access your content. Collecting revenue from donations or forced-advertisemenets (cannot be turned off by the creator) on the content is fine. 
9. **Nefarious** means anything that causes or might reasonably cause harm to yourself, others, or the enviornment.
    - Basically no harassment, No Web3/Crypto/"Pay To Earn", no scams, etc.
9. **Mods** 
9. **Game**
9. **Community Content**

## B. Permissions

1. You may use the all Assets for non-Nefrious pourposes content about or relating to the Game. Some examples include: 
    - Tutorial videos
    - Video essays on the Game
    - A wiki for the Game
2. You may use Music, Art, and Text assets for any Non-Commercial non-Nefrious pourposes, even if not related to the Game. 
3. Create and distribute Mods for the Game. 
    1. All
4. In the case of the games source code being offically released, you:
    1. May study its source code
    2. May implement indevidual systems and algoirthums into your own projects
    3. MAY NOT Distribute the game, except as allowed by ADD_PERMENENBT_CLAUSE


## C. Conditions

1. You must credit and provide a URI or hyperlink to Our official website, or anything else desired by the Licenceor. 
2. Credit may be provided in any reasonable way, such as: 
    1. A command on your stream such as `/credits` or `!credits`.
    2. Mentioning it in a video description or at the end of the post
    3. Including an image caption crediting the creators.
    4. In some cases, even just being willing to say what soundtrack its from can be enough for songs.

## D. Restrictions

1. For the avoiance of doubt, any use of any Assets for a Nerarious pourpouse is strictly forbidden.
2. Use the Game or its Assets in or for any Commercial pourposes is strictly forbidden. 
3. You may not distribute any part of Assets, Source Code, Source Files except as allowed by section B.
    1. The condition D(3) is waived if for any reason We completely stop distributing all assets through official means. 

## E. Term and Termination

1. The licence will be granted: 
    1. Automatically, upon use of our content
2. This licence is revoked automatically and immeditely upon violation of these terms. 
    1. Sections A, C, D, E, and F survive any expiration or termination of the licence unless explictly revoked by the Licencor. 
3. The licence will be reinstaed 
    1. Automatically, upon compliance with these terms. 
    2. With express explcit permission from the licencor.

## F. Limitation of Liability and avoidance of doubt

// copied from MIT licence
THE GAME AND ALL ASSETS ARE PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE GAME OR ITS ASSETS OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE GAME OR ITS ASSETS .

This licence deed is, except where copied from other licences, public domain.