---
title: Beautiful Codestyle
---

The pourpose of this code style is to help keep cohesive, readable, beautioful, and maintainable code. By following this style all code will look as if one person wrote all of it, no matter how many contributers there are. 

This helps some things, such as "style fights", where two or more people keep changing the style of a block of code to thier prefrence.

This code style is very opinionated and specific, and aims to lead zero ambiguity when it comes to any case.

## general styles 

General rules that apply to all languages. Examples will be written in a combination of languages.

1. We indent by 4 spaces, not a tab. 

### Variables

Variables are named in `snake_case` in all cases. Variable names should

1. **Be descriptive**: We're not stuck with 80 character terminal screens anymore and have tools like autofill. Variable names should clear and tell you exactly what they are. 
    1. Single letter variable names are not allowed UNLESS: 
        1. Coordinate Handlers
            1. It is an argument to a function that is explictly a coordinate handler. 
            2. Said function deals with no more than one set of coordinates at a time.
            3. Allowed coordinate variable names are:
                - `x`, `y`, `z` (position). Where Y is vertical. 
                - `w` - where W is rotation
                - `u`, `v` where u and v are the textures x and y coordinate mapping.
                - The order must be: `[u, v], [w], [x, y, [z]] `. Arguments in [] are groups of optional arguments.
        2. Rendering systems and color-related functions
            1. `r`, `g`, `b`, and `a` are allowed variables, in that order. 
    2. Pluralise lists and nothing else. 
        1. Lists contain multiple items, nothing else does. Therefore only list types should end with an s. This also allowed for things like `for post in posts`, as is explored in the next point.
    3. No `i` in Range
        1. `for i in list[]` and simillar statements do not tell you what the list handles. If its an abstract concept and you only go one layer deep it can be acceptable, but its generally its prefered to do something like `for post in posts`
2. **Be Short**
3. Not include types 
4. Include Units
5. be in `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE` if its constant

- naming 
- style 
- semantics 
Conditionals 

### Functions

Functions 
- naming 
- pourpose 
- design 

## Reusing Code

We **avoid inheritnace** as a general rule. Inheritnace inherntly requires you to bundle all shared aspects into one class. That seems to work perfectly until you find an exception to the rule. 

Instead, by using **composition**, we can simply tell each object what properties it has, letting us easily leave things in or out. 

Let's have an example of why. You have a player and an enemy, which both have health, a hitbox, animations, and abbility to deal manage. So we bundle that all into an `Entity` class. 

Now what if we want to add a tree? It can inherit most of that fine, but a tree dealing damage hardly makes sense. All we can really do there is throw an exception, which, isn't great.

[Example Source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=74y6zWZfQKk)

## language specifics 

### Godot Engine

IDK. Maybe something with `Capitalised_Snake_Case`?

---

Curly braced 

Indented 

XML-like 

## meta 
Amendments 
Authors 
Copyright

## Extra/To Add

It is more important for code to handle all reasonable errors than to have less indent. 
```rust
fn main() {
    let path = "lines.txt";
    let output = File::create(path);

    let mut output: File = match output { 
        Ok(file) => file,
        Err(error) => {
            panic!("Could not find the file you amazing beautiful person <3 (Error: {:?}", error)
        }
    };

    write!(output, "Just some\nrandom text for this\nbeautiful file!")
        .expect("Failed to write to the file");

    let input = File::open(path).unwrap();
    let buffer = BufReader::new(input);

    for line in buffer.lines() { 
        println!("{}", line.unwrap())
    }

    let output2 = File::create("rand.txt");
    let output2 = match output2 { 
        Ok(file) => file,
        Err(error) => match error.kind() { 
            ErrorKind::NotFound => match File::create("rand.txt") { 
                Ok(fc) => fc,
                Err(e) => panic!("File not found, but could not be created. {:?}", error)
            },
            _other_error => panic!("Beats me {:?}", error)
        }
    };
}
```

space-pad inline dictionaries
```rust
impl Shape for Rectangle { 
    fn new(length: f32, width: f32) -> Rectangle { 
        return Rectangle { length: length, width: width }
    }

    fn area(&self) -> f32 { return self.length * self.width; }
}
```

Use Generic for generics when possible
This: 
```rust
fn get_sum_gen<Generic>(x: Generic, y: Generic) -> Generic { 
    return x + y;
}
```

NOT This
```rust
fn get_sum_gen<T>(x: T, y: T) -> T { 
    return x + y;
}
```
also a Generic is literally just an inout or output that can be more than one type
like
it lets you add an i32 to a u32 or a f64 to a u128
or return either a f64 or isize or usize
etc
STACK: Stores data as last-in, first-out. Data on the stack must be a fixed size

HEAP: Request a certin amount of space so things can grow. (pointers) 

COMPONENTS are named in `Capitalised_Snake_Case` or `Pascal_Snake_Case`. Items, scenes, and anything summonable by the player is named in `snake_case`. [?]